
Hi in this lesson we will be learning to CSS

1:CSS means,
CSS stands for Cascading style sheets.
stands for: anlamına gelmek, 

Cascading(käskeydîng)(basamakli)
Style(stil)
Sheets(sablonu)
cascading style sheets
-Among these words, we will use "style" very often.
(Bu kelimler icerisinden "style"i cok sik kullanacagiz. )

3:
CSS is a brand new language separate from HTML.
(CSS, HTML'den ayrı yepyeni bir dildir.)

We can use to add style to our web pages.

4:
Content vs Style
vs(vies): ve

HTML was never intended to style webpages, normally HTML defines the structure and content of a webpage. 
(HTML hiçbir zaman web sayfalarına stil vermek için tasarlanmamıştır HTML, bir web sayfasının yapısını ve içeriğini tanımlar.)

-> Style should be in a separate place from html codes, because it takes up a lot of space in html.
(style, html'in icerisinde cok buyuk bir alan kapladigi icin , html cod'larindan ayri bir yerde olmalidir.)


5:
Tedious to add style="..." To every single tag. Not scalable(won't work at  a large scale.) 
Tedious(tidiıs): sıkıcı
scale(skeyl):ölçek

6:
CSS was developed to define the style of the webpage.
(CSS, web sayfasının stilini tanımlamak için geliştirilmiştir.)

Separate content(HTML) from style(CSS)
(İçeriği (HTML) stilden (CSS) ayırın)

-In this lesson, we will separate styles from HTML content.

7:
If we only use HTML, our website will look like this.

8:
But when we add CSS style, our website will change like this.

11:
CSS is great for designing our web pages for adding things like colors, fonts, spacing , alignment, size and more.

12:
This whole things is a CSS rule.

For example, when you use the h1 tag in HTML, you can use the h1 tag in CSS like that.
Örneğin, HTML'de h1 etiketini kullandığınızda, CSS'de h1 etiketini bu şekilde kullanabilirsiniz.

13:
The selector defines which HTML elements this rule applies to.
(Seçici, bu kuralın hangi HTML öğelerine uygulanacağını tanımlar.)

First part of CSS rule is the CSS selector(h1).

Selector defines exactly which HTML elements this rule is going to apply to,
So this is saying this will apply to all h1's on the page. 
(Seçici, bu kuralın tam olarak hangi HTML öğelerine uygulanacağını tanımlar,
Yani bu, bunun sayfadaki tüm h1'ler için geçerli olacağını söylüyor.)

14:
After the CSS selector we have curly braces and inside the curly braces we have one or more CSS declarations.
(CSS seçicisinden sonra küme parantezleri ve küme parantezlerinin içinde bir veya daha fazla CSS bildirimi var.)

property -value pair.

19:
How many h1 tags there are in HTML is affected by this style.
24:
How can we add CSS to our code well.

There is a special tag in HTML the style tag.
(HTML'de stil etiketi olan özel bir etiket vardır.)

All we have to do is make an opening style tag and closing style tag and put all of CSS rules inside the style tag,
(Tek yapmamız gereken bir açılış stili etiketi ve kapanış stili etiketi yapmak ve tüm CSS kurallarını stil etiketinin içine koymak,)

25: Where should the style tag be?


