
Iteration:yenileme

2:
In this lesson, we will repeat the if statement.

An if statement is a way to have Tracy make decisions.
(Bir if ifadesi, Tracy'nin karar vermesini sağlamanın bir yoludur.)

3:
How does Tracy read if statement?

command(kımänd):emretmek, buyurmak,

Tracy check the condition.
 If it is true, she performs the commands below. 
(Eğer doğruysa aşağıdaki komutları yerine getirir.)

Below(bilō): asagi, asagida. 

If the condition is false, she skip to the next commands.

4:
How do we write conditions?

In order to write a condition, we need to compare something to something else.
(Bir koşul yazmak için) 

We do this by using comparison operators some of the operators Tracy understands that equal sign...

5:
Comparison Operators: Conditions must use comparison operators.
(Koşullar, karşılaştırma operatörlerini kullanmalıdır.)


6:
Mathematical Operators:
Here are some mathematical operators that you can use to alter values.
(Değerleri değiştirmek için kullanabileceğiniz bazı matematiksel operatörler aşağıda verilmiştir.)

You know these operators from your math class.

It is necessary to pay attention to the percent sign.

We can use the percent sign to get the remainder of one value divided by another. 
(Bir değerin kalanını diğerine bölmek için yüzde işaretini kullanabiliriz.)

Exponent: To take the power of any number.

For example:
quotient(kwōşınt):bölüm
If I wrote 10 modulus 2 my remainder would be 0;
Similarly if I write 10 modulus 5 my remainder is still 0,

10:
Enhance(enhäns): Genişletmek, 

1-In this example, Tracy adjusts her position and turns to the right.
Bu ornekte Tracy pozisyonun ayarlıyor ve saga donuyor. 

2-Then we call the hash_marks() function.
Sonra hash_marks() fonksiyonunu cagiriyoruz.

3-There is a for loop inside the function.
Fonksiyonun içerisinde for loop var. 

4-For loop completes the loop 16 times.
For loop 16 kez donguyu tamamlıyor. 

5-After 3 commands, Tracy checks if condition.
3 commands sonra Tracy if condition'i kontrol ediyor. 
  if count % 2 == 0:
6-If condition is True then pensize(5) becomes 5, which condition is true.
Eğer condition True ise pensize(5) 5 oluyor, ki condition true.

7-In this example, Tracy adjusts her position and turns to the right.

Then we call the hash_marks() function.

There is a for loop inside the function.

For loop completes the loop 16 times.

After 3 commands, Tracy checks if condition.

  if count % 2 == 0:

If condition is True then pensize(5) becomes 5, which condition is true.

Then pensize(1) becomes 1 and count increases by 1.
Sonra pensize(1) 1 oluyor ve count 1 artıyor.

Pensize() changes according to if condition.
Pensize() if condition'a gore degisiyor. 

